## Task 5: Edge Splitting

We implemented edge splitting by carefully following
[this](http://15462.courses.cs.cmu.edu/fall2015content/misc/HalfedgeEdgeOpImplementationGuide.pdf)
guide linked from the spec. We first drew out the before and after
settings of the mesh, and then implemented the pointer gymnastics in
code. We did not need to do any debugging since the implementation was
correct the first time. Yes, it was correct the first time. Except a
tiny error where we did not reassign the halfedge of one of the
vertices correctly, which caused us a lot of pain in part 6. In order
to catch that error, my partner Catherine looked through the diagram
and the code and spotted the missed vertex halfedge assignment.

Below are some screenshots of the teapot before (top) and after
splitting a few edges (middle), and after splitting and flipping a few
edges repeatedly (bottom). As you can see, flipping some of the edges
after splitting leads to more of an upsampling effect, as will be usedt
in the next part.

![teapot_before_flip](assets/p2_t4_before.png)
![teapot_after_flip](assets/p2_t5_after_1.png)
![teapot_after_flip](assets/p2_t5_after_2.png)

The only debugging journey we had with this was finally figuring out
that one vertex had an incorrectly assigned halfedge (there was a
missing halfedge assignment), which took us a while to catch. We
caught it by referring to the diagram used to write the code, and
realizing that one of the old vertices needed its halfedge to change.
This problem only manifested when we were trying to implement
upsampling in task 6, and some vertices seemed to have incorrect
positions. We looked through all of the Task 6 code, rewrote the
entire Task 4 code for edge flipping, and then finally found the bug
in Task 5.
