## Part 4: Global Illumination

### Implementation

To implement indirect lighting, we used the Russian Roulette
estimation method to construct a unbiased estimate of the lighting.

The estimator we use is $\frac{\text{bsdf sample}\cdot \text{at least
one bounce radiance} \cdot cos(\theta)}{\text{pdf} * \text{cpdf}}$,
where `pdf` is probability of tracing that ray and `cpdf` continuation
probability.

The function `at_least_one_bounce_radiance` is implemented recursively
where we stop ray tracing and use the `one_bounce_radiance` only with
probability 1 - `cpdf` and continue ray tracing with probability
`cpdf` after the first bounce. To keep track of the bounce number for
each newly sampled ray direction, we increment the `depth` attribute
and terminate execution when it reaches `max_ray_depth`. We stop
the Russian Roulette strategy deterministically after
`max_ray_depth` has been reached by the ray.

### Example Renders

Below are a few scenes rendered with global illumination, 1024 sampler
pixel. Both scenes have been rendered with 16 samples per area light and a
max ray depth of 6.

![](assets/img/p3_4_2_bunny_s_1024_l_16.png)
![](assets/img/p3_4_2_dragon_s_1024_l_16.png)
![](assets/img/p3_4_2_spheres_s_1024_l_16.png)

### Varying `max_ray_depth`

As we can see, increasing `max_ray_depth` increases the number of
interreflections that are rendered. With 0 we only see the light
source since nothing else is ray-traced. With 1 we have direct
lighting. With 2, we now have shadows that have color, since some
light is bouncing off the walls; furthermore, the roof of the Cornell
Box is now lit up due to reflection of light from the spheres and the
floor of the box. With 3 we get more interreflections, and with 100,
we get a very
natural-looking image since the radiance of all the pixels have
converged to their real-world values with infinite reflections, as
light rays lose energy at every bounce, so we don't need too many
bounces for convergence to the infinite sum over bounces.

<table style="width: 100%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto">
    <colgroup>
       <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 80%;">
    </colgroup>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th style="text-align: center">
                <code class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">max_ray_depth</code>
            </th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Rendered Image</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">0</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_4_bunny_s_1024_l_16_m_0.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">1</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_4_bunny_s_1024_l_16_m_1.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">2</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_4_bunny_s_1024_l_16_m_2.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">3</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_4_bunny_s_1024_l_16_m_3.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">100</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_4_bunny_s_1024_l_16_m_100.png"></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Varying the Number of Samples Per Pixel

The following scenes have been rendered with 4 light rays and a
`max_ray_depth` of 5. As we can see, we need a large number of samples
per pixel for the pixel radiance values to converge. This is due to
the randomness inherent in the ray tracing process from a surface with
a diffuse BSDF. The bounce rays go in various directions, so we need
to take the average of several rays for the variance of the radiance
values to reduce. Variance manifests as noise in the image. As we can
see, there is still some noise even with 64 samples per pixel. Using
1024 samples per pixel leaves no discernible noise in the rendered
image, as all the variations have been averaged out.

<table style="width: 100%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto">
    <colgroup>
       <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 80%;">
    </colgroup>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th style="text-align: center">Samples Per Pixel</th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Rendered Image</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">1</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_1_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">2</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_2_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">4</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_4_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">8</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_8_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">16</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_16_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">64</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_64_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">1024</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_4_5_bunny_s_1024_l_4_m_5.png"></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>