## Part 3: Direct Illumination 

### Uniform Sampling on Hemisphere

Given a `hit_p` point, we sample a direction uniformly at random on
the hemisphere. We shoot a ray in that direction and find the light
emission which may be zero if the intersection point is not a light
source. We do this `ns_area_light  * num_lights` times and compute a
Monte Carlo estimate. The equation is given by
$\frac{1}{N}\sum_{i=1}^N \frac{\text{bsdf sample}_i \cdot
\text{radiance}_i \cdot cos(\theta)}{\text{pdf}_i}$ where $\theta$ is
the angle between the normal of `hit_p` and the ray direction.

### Importance Sampling on Light Sources

To importance sample, we first iterate through the light sources. If
the light source is a point light source, we take one sample because
there is a direct line from the the light source to the point of
interest. On the other hand, if the light source is an area light, we
average across `ns_area_light` samples. Another point of optimization
is checking to see if the object is behind the light by transforming
the ray direction to object coordinates. If the z-coordinate is
negative, we can short circuit.

To actually calculate the lighting from the lights, we sample a
direction, pdf, and radiance using the `sample_L` function. The Monte
Carlo estimator we use is $\frac{1}{N}\sum_{i=1}^N \frac{\text{bsdf
sample}_i \cdot \text{radiance}_i \cdot cos(\theta)}{\text{pdf}_i}$.

To account for floating point precision errors, we offset the `min_t`
attribute of the ray so we don't intersect a surface multiple times.
We also offset the `max_t` attribute of the ray to detect if there is
another object blocking the light. We can shoot a ray at the light and
if there is no intersection, we can conclude there is no object
obstructing the view of the light.

### Example Renders

Below are some images rendered with uniform hemisphere sampling on the
left and importance sampling of lights on the right. Please open
images in a new tab or zoom in to see full resolution.

Observe that the dragon is completely black with uniform hemisphere
sampling since the probability of sampling a point light (a specific
direction on the unit hemisphere) is zero.

<!-- | Samples Per Pixel | Samples Per Area Light | Uniform Hemisphere Sampling | Importance Sampling of Lights |
|:-----:|:----:|------|-----|
| 16 | 8 | ![](assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_8_H.png) | ![](assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_8.png) | -->

<table style="width: 120%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto">
    <colgroup>
       <col span="1" style="width: 10%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 45%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 45%;">
    </colgroup>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th>Samples Per Pixel, Samples Per Area Light</th>
            <th>Uniform Hemisphere Sampling</th>
            <th>Importance Sampling of Lights</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">16, 8</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_8_H.png"></td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_8.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">16, 32</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_32_H.png"></td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_16_l_32.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">64, 8</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_64_l_8_H.png"></td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_64_l_8.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">64, 32</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_64_l_32_H.png"></td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_bunny_s_64_l_32.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">16, 32</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_dragon_s_16_l_32_H.png"></td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_2_dragon_s_16_l_32.png"></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Comparison Between the Two Sampling Methods

Uniform hemisphere sampling is an intuitive but higher-variance method
of sampling the one-bounce radiance at any given point, since a light
traced ray may or may not intersect a light source. Rays that don't
intersect a light source convey no information about the radiance of
the point. This leads to higher variance, and as we can see above, it
leads to higher variance than importance-sampling the lights in the
image. It is also statistically impossible to render images with point
lights only using uniform hemisphere sampling, as seen from the empty
dragon image above. Since we know the locations of the light sources
in the scene, we can instead only trace rays that intersect with the
light source. This provides a much lower-variance estimate of the
radiance at each point since every traced ray intersects with a light
source and thus contributes meaningful information about the
one-bounce radiance at that point. This makes the pixel radiance
values converge much faster, leading to lower noise even with fewer
samples per light and per pixel, as seen above. Furthermore, since we
now only cast rays that intersect with lights instead of sampling
directions uniformly at random on a unit hemisphere, we can render
images with point light sources using importance sampling of lights.
### Soft Shadow Noise Comparison

Each image has been rendered with one (1) sample per pixel. As we can
see, using more samples per area light leads to less noise in the soft
shadows. This is because averaging the radiance from a large number of
samples reduces the variance in the radiance estimate, which is
perceived visually as lesser noise.

<table style="width: 100%; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto">
    <colgroup>
       <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 80%;">
    </colgroup>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th style="text-align: center">Samples Per Area Light</th>
            <th style="text-align: center">Image with Importance Sampling of Lights</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">1</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_3_l_1.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">4</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_3_l_4.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">16</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_3_l_16.png"></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="text-align: center">64</td>
            <td><img src="assets/img/p3_3_3_l_64.png"></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
