## Simulation via Numerical Integration

We use Verlet integration to compute the positions of each of the
particles over time by appropriately computing the positions of
particles from the acceleration, velocity, and previous position of
each particle. We also implement clipping of spring lengths to make
the integration more stable.

### Effect of Spring Constant `ks`

When the spring constant is low, the cloth behaves more like a piece
of silk cloth in terms of movement, and its resting position for
`pinned2.json` has a deep curve and sharp creases at the top, as seen
in the top picture (`ks = 500`). On the other hand, when the spring
constant is higher, the cloth behaves like a stiffer material, like a
rubber sheet when it is falling. In its resting position, the curve at
the top is less pronounced, and the creases are not as sharp, as the
springs exert a greater force to make the cloth smoother, as seen in
the bottom picture (`ks = 500000`).

![ks_500](assets/img/p4_2_1_ks_500.png)
![ks_50000](assets/img/p4_2_1_ks_50000.png)

### EFfect of `density`

The density of the cloth controls the mass of each point mass, so the
effect of this parameter works in lock step with the spring constant
when there is gravity, since heavier point masses pull the springs
harder, and vice versa for lighter point masses. Thus, increasing
density has a similar effect as making `ks` smaller, and reducing
density has a similar effect as making `ks` larger. Both figures below
have `ks = 5000`, but the top image has `density = 1` and the bottom
figure has `density = 100`.

![density 1](assets/img/p4_2_1_density_1.png)
![density 100](assets/img/p4_2_1_density_100.png)

### Effect of `damping`

Damping is needed to model the non-conservative nature of forces in
the real world, such as friction and air resistance. Setting `damping
= 0` makes the cloth never come to rest, since energy must be
conserved. Thus the cloth in `pinned2.json` keeps oscillating, and
some of the energy gets absorbed by the springs, making the cloth
vibrate. Since all the spring forces are conservative, and gravity is
conservative, energy is conserved. Increasing damping takes away a lot
of energy at each time step, making the cloth come to rest slowly and
in a neat way. There is also very little vibration in the resting
position, even for high spring constants. The cloth also moves very
calmly. The upper screenshot is with `damping = 0` (here the cloth is
not at rest, but this is simply one screenshot of the cloth
oscillating back and forth), and the bottom
screenshot is with `damping = 0.8`.

![damping 0](assets/img/p4_2_1_damping_0.png)
![damping 0.8](assets/img/p4_2_1_damping_08.png)

### Shaded `pinned4.json`

Below is a screenshot of `pinned4.json` with default parameters and
normal shading.

![pinned4 default](assets/img/p4_2_2_default.png)
